# dpv | Differentially Private Variant Release

This package aims to convert arbitrary event logs into differentially private (DP)
trace variants. From these privatized variant frequencies less abstract formats
such as direct follow relations or full process models can be generated by still
maintaining DP.  

There are multiple approaches to guarantee DP on frequency-based information with
the majority either expecting prior knowledge about the data or depending on
high numbers of queries. The unique selling point of `dpv` is to mitigate those 
limitations by combining the item selection (variants) and the randomization of the
counting process into one algorithm.  

All theoretical background of the strategy, its proofs and evaluation can be found
in [1] and [2].

## Structure

The project is mainly clustered into a core (main directory) containing all
privatizing methods and a utility subpackage (util directory) for all helper functions.  

In detail the package reads:  

dpv (core):  
+ `variant_transformer`: converts event logs directly to DP variants with `dpv`
+ `optimizer`: optimizes `variant_transformer` methods towards utility goals
+ `variant_query`: converts event logs to DP variants via item brute-force [3]
+ `dfr`: generates DP direct follow relations with `dpv` (extractor) or item queries (query) [3]
+ `data_utility`: computes information loss due to privatization

util:
+ `converter`: provides data- and parameter-converters
+ `metric`: contains helper functions for quantization
+ `stats`: contains all statistics tools and noise generators

For the DP mechanisms used in `variant_query`, we refer to [4]. 

## Installation

The package is written in Python and can be installed via `pip install .` executed 
inside the project directory. All necessary dependencies are listed in `requirements.txt`.
Note, that the code has only been tested with Python 3.8.x - 3.10.x.

## Usage

There are many potential use cases which could be supported by `dpv`. Some of them
are compiled as `jupyter-notebooks` in the `experiments` main folder.  
We advise to read the paper [1] that describes our TraVaS approach in more detail.

## Contact

In case of questions, contribution requests or recommendations, please feel free to
get in touch at `frederik.wangelik@rwth-aachen.de`.

## References

[1] Rafiei, M., Wangelik, F., van der Aalst, W.: "TraVaS: Differentially Private Trace Variant
Selection for Process Mining" (in review for ICPM22)
[2] Desfontaines, D., Voss, J., Gipson, B. et al.: Differentially private partition selection. Proc. Priv. Enhancing Technol. 2022(1): 339-352 (2022)
[3] Mannhardt, F., Koschmider, A., Baracaldo, N. et al.: "Privacy-Preserving Process Mining." Bus. Inf. Syst. Eng. 61, 595–614 (2019).
[4] Holohan, N., Braghin, S., Aonghusa, P. M., et al.: Diffprivlib: The IBM Differential Privacy Library. CoRR abs/1907.02444 (2019)